README.md, before:

FSTPermuter
===========
Josef Robert Novak - 2013-01-01

This distribution provides several small standalone tools suitable 
for computing the most likely sequence(s) of words given an input 
LM and unordered list of input words. The WFST-framework and 
OpenFst library are used as the basis for the tools.

For example, given the list `goes`, `he`, `the`, `park`, `to`, the 
tool will compute the most likely sequence, `he goes to the park` and
the corresponding log probability of the sequence.  n-best results are
also supported for certain special cases.

Scripts for computing the log probability of individual sequences via
OpenGRM or SRILM are also provided for verification purposes.

Requirements
------------
 * [OpenFst library](http://www.openfst.org)(v1.3+) -- Make sure to compile the extensions: `./configure --enable-compact-fsts --enable-const-fsts --enable-far --enable-lookahead-fsts --enable-pdt`
 * g++ or comparable compiler
 * OSX or Linux operating

Optional
--------
 * [OpenGRM](http://www.openfst.org/twiki/bin/view/GRM/NGramLibrary) -- For running OpenGRM comparison
 * [python 2.7+](http://www.python.org/getit/) -- For running OpenGRM comparison
 * [SRILM](http://www.speech.sri.com/projects/srilm/) -- For running SRILM comparison

Compilation
-----------
Just run `make` from the parent directory. Remember OpenFst has to be installed.
`$ make`

Tools
-----
The distribution includes several tools.
 * `arpa-to-wfsa`: Convert an ARPA format LM to an equivalent WFSA.
 * `compute-best-permutation`: Compute the most probable permutation for an input word list, given an input LM.
 * `get-syms`: Convenience utility for extracting symbol tables from an FST. Useful for OpenGRM verification.
 * `grm-perp.py`: python script that uses OpenGRM to compute the perplexity of an input sentence.  Useful for verification purposes.
 * `srilm.sh`: Example SRILM command to compute the perplexity of a sentence with the SRILM ngram tool.

Examples
--------
The tools provide a range of options; below are several simplest case examples.

### Convert 
Convert an ARPA format LM to WFSA format, using failure transitions.
`$ ./arpa-to-wfsa --lm=testlm.arpa --ofile=testlm.fst`

### Compute - std-based
Compute the most likely permutation of a list of input words given an LM in WFSA format.  This approach uses the C++ STD library function `next_permutation`.  This is not particularly fast.  Note that OOV words will be mapped to the <unk> token.
`$ ./compute-best-permutation --lm=testlm.fst --input="he goes to the jibberish park" --use_lat=false`

### Compute - lattice-based
Compute the most likely permutation of a list of input words given an LM in WFSA format.  Uses the lattice-based method by default, and composition with failure transitions. Note that OOV words will be mapped to the <unk> token.
`$ ./compute-best-permutation --lm=testlm.fst --input="he goes to the jibberish park"`

#### Compute n-best
The lattice-based approach also supports n-best results.

    $ ./compute-best-permutation --lm=testlm.fst --input="he goes to the jibberish park" --nbest=3
       Loading WFSA-format LM...
       Computing best permutation...
       Symbol: 'jibberish' not found in input symbols table.
       Mapping to <unk>
       Time(nsec): 1160492
       28.3986(log10: -12.3333) he goes to the <unk> park
       30.1492(log10: -13.0936) he goes to the park <unk>
       31.4548(log10: -13.6606) he goes to <unk> the park

### Compare
In order to verify the log-probability scores computed by the utility, two scripts are provided.

#### OpenGRM
If OpenGRM is installed, the `grm-perp.py` script may be used. Assuming `text.txt` contains the sentences,

    he goes to the <unk> park
    he goes to the park <unk>
    he goes to <unk> the park

then the following command will compute the probability of individual sentences:

    $ ./grm-perp.py --lm testlm.arpa --test test.txt --arpa
       ngramread --ARPA testlm.arpa > test.fst
       ./get-syms test.fst test.isyms
       INFO: FstImpl::ReadHeader: source: test.fst, fst_type: vector, arc_type: standard, version: 2, flags: 3
       INFO: FstImpl::ReadHeader: source: <unspecfied>, fst_type: vector, arc_type: standard, version: 2, flags: 0
       INFO: FstImpl::ReadHeader: source: <unspecfied>, fst_type: vector, arc_type: standard, version: 2, flags: 0
       INFO: FstImpl::ReadHeader: source: <unspecfied>, fst_type: vector, arc_type: standard, version: 2, flags: 0
       WARNING: OOV probability = 0; OOVs will be ignored in perplexity calculation
       he goes to the <unk> park
                                                ngram  -logprob
         N-gram probability                      found  (base10)
         p( he | <s> )                        = [2gram]  1.46402
         p( goes | he ...)                    = [2gram]  3.06386
         p( to | goes ...)                    = [2gram]  0.771098
         p( the | to ...)                     = [2gram]  1.02492
         p( <unk> | the ...)                  = [2gram]  1.66247
         p( park | <unk> ...)                 = [2gram]  3.49122
         p( </s> | park ...)                  = [2gram]  0.855749
       1 sentences, 6 words, 0 OOVs       
       logprob(base 10)= -12.3333;  perplexity = 57.797
      ...
      ...

#### SRILM
The SRILM `ngram` command may also be used for the same purpose:

    $ ngram -lm testlm.arpa -ppl test.txt -unk -debug 5
      reading 64000 1-grams
      reading 7896695 2-grams
      reading 0 3-grams
      he goes to the <unk> park
         p( he | <s> )     = [2gram] 0.0343541 [ -1.46402 ] / 1
         p( goes | he ...)   = [2gram] 0.000863263 [ -3.06386 ] / 1
         p( to | goes ...)   = [2gram] 0.169396 [ -0.771098 ] / 1
         p( the | to ...)    = [2gram] 0.094423 [ -1.02492 ] / 1
         p( <unk> | the ...) 	 = [2gram] 0.0217534 [ -1.66247 ] / 1
         p( park | <unk> ...)  = [2gram] 0.000322689 [ -3.49122 ] / 1
         p( </s> | park ...) 	 = [2gram] 0.139396 [ -0.855749 ] / 1
      1 sentences, 6 words, 0 OOVs
      0 zeroprobs, logprob= -12.3333 ppl= 57.7969 ppl1= 113.646

#### Additional options
Each of the tools contains a bevy of additional options, which may be used to 
perform modified versions of the above commands.  For example the use of failure
and epsilon transitions may be toggled, and the '<unk>' and sentence-begin and
sentence-end tokens may be set by the user.  See the individual `--help` for 
further details.

Lattice method details
----------------------
Details of the lattice-based method for computing the most likely permutation
are provided in the docs/lattice-method.pdf document.  This includes several
graphical examples of the approach, which is significantly more efficient than
the brute-force STD-based approach.

Commit message:

Added optional pruning parameter, updated README
Added an additional pruning parameter that can be used to prune the
intermediate lattice, making longer lists more tractable at the expense
of exactness.  Updated the README.md file with examples.

README.md, after:

FSTPermuter
===========
Josef Robert Novak - 2013-01-01

This distribution provides several small standalone tools suitable 
for computing the most likely sequence(s) of words given an input 
LM and unordered list of input words. The WFST-framework and 
OpenFst library are used as the basis for the tools.

For example, given the list `goes`, `he`, `the`, `park`, `to`, the 
tool will compute the most likely sequence, `he goes to the park` and
the corresponding log probability of the sequence.  n-best results are
also supported for certain special cases.

Scripts for computing the log probability of individual sequences via
OpenGRM or SRILM are also provided for verification purposes.

Requirements
------------
 * [OpenFst library](http://www.openfst.org)(v1.3+) -- Make sure to compile the extensions: `./configure --enable-compact-fsts --enable-const-fsts --enable-far --enable-lookahead-fsts --enable-pdt`
 * g++ or comparable compiler
 * OSX or Linux operating

Optional
--------
 * [OpenGRM](http://www.openfst.org/twiki/bin/view/GRM/NGramLibrary) -- For running OpenGRM comparison
 * [python 2.7+](http://www.python.org/getit/) -- For running OpenGRM comparison
 * [SRILM](http://www.speech.sri.com/projects/srilm/) -- For running SRILM comparison

Compilation
-----------
Just run `make` from the parent directory. Remember OpenFst has to be installed.
`$ make`

Tools
-----
The distribution includes several tools.
 * `arpa-to-wfsa`: Convert an ARPA format LM to an equivalent WFSA.
 * `compute-best-permutation`: Compute the most probable permutation for an input word list, given an input LM.
 * `get-syms`: Convenience utility for extracting symbol tables from an FST. Useful for OpenGRM verification.
 * `grm-perp.py`: python script that uses OpenGRM to compute the perplexity of an input sentence.  Useful for verification purposes.
 * `srilm.sh`: Example SRILM command to compute the perplexity of a sentence with the SRILM ngram tool.

Examples
--------
The tools provide a range of options; below are several simplest case examples.

### Convert 
Convert an ARPA format LM to WFSA format, using failure transitions.
`$ ./arpa-to-wfsa --lm=testlm.arpa --ofile=testlm.fst`

### Compute - std-based
Compute the most likely permutation of a list of input words given an LM in WFSA format.  This approach uses the C++ STD library function `next_permutation`.  This is not particularly fast.  Note that OOV words will be mapped to the <unk> token.
`$ ./compute-best-permutation --lm=testlm.fst --input="he goes to the jibberish park" --use_lat=false`

### Compute - lattice-based
Compute the most likely permutation of a list of input words given an LM in WFSA format.  Uses the lattice-based method by default, and composition with failure transitions. Note that OOV words will be mapped to the <unk> token.
`$ ./compute-best-permutation --lm=testlm.fst --input="he goes to the jibberish park"`

#### Compute n-best
The lattice-based approach also supports n-best results.

    $ ./compute-best-permutation --lm=testlm.fst --input="he goes to the jibberish park" --nbest=3
       Loading WFSA-format LM...
       Computing best permutation...
       Symbol: 'jibberish' not found in input symbols table.
       Mapping to <unk>
       Time(nsec): 1160492
       28.3986(log10: -12.3333) he goes to the <unk> park
       30.1492(log10: -13.0936) he goes to the park <unk>
       31.4548(log10: -13.6606) he goes to <unk> the park

#### Heuristic Pruning
The `--thresh` parameter can be used to heuristically prune the intermediate permutation lattice.
This modifies the order in which the component FSAs are composed and prunes the intermediate lattice
prior to filtering all permutations.  This can potentially make larger word lists more tractable at
the expense of exactness. 

### Compare
In order to verify the log-probability scores computed by the utility, two scripts are provided.

#### OpenGRM
If OpenGRM is installed, the `grm-perp.py` script may be used. Assuming `text.txt` contains the sentences,

    he goes to the <unk> park
    he goes to the park <unk>
    he goes to <unk> the park

then the following command will compute the probability of individual sentences:

    $ ./grm-perp.py --lm testlm.arpa --test test.txt --arpa
       ngramread --ARPA testlm.arpa > test.fst
       ./get-syms test.fst test.isyms
       INFO: FstImpl::ReadHeader: source: test.fst, fst_type: vector, arc_type: standard, version: 2, flags: 3
       INFO: FstImpl::ReadHeader: source: <unspecfied>, fst_type: vector, arc_type: standard, version: 2, flags: 0
       INFO: FstImpl::ReadHeader: source: <unspecfied>, fst_type: vector, arc_type: standard, version: 2, flags: 0
       INFO: FstImpl::ReadHeader: source: <unspecfied>, fst_type: vector, arc_type: standard, version: 2, flags: 0
       WARNING: OOV probability = 0; OOVs will be ignored in perplexity calculation
       he goes to the <unk> park
                                                ngram  -logprob
         N-gram probability                      found  (base10)
         p( he | <s> )                        = [2gram]  1.46402
         p( goes | he ...)                    = [2gram]  3.06386
         p( to | goes ...)                    = [2gram]  0.771098
         p( the | to ...)                     = [2gram]  1.02492
         p( <unk> | the ...)                  = [2gram]  1.66247
         p( park | <unk> ...)                 = [2gram]  3.49122
         p( </s> | park ...)                  = [2gram]  0.855749
       1 sentences, 6 words, 0 OOVs       
       logprob(base 10)= -12.3333;  perplexity = 57.797
      ...
      ...

#### SRILM
The SRILM `ngram` command may also be used for the same purpose:

    $ ngram -lm testlm.arpa -ppl test.txt -unk -debug 5
      reading 64000 1-grams
      reading 7896695 2-grams
      reading 0 3-grams
      he goes to the <unk> park
         p( he | <s> )     = [2gram] 0.0343541 [ -1.46402 ] / 1
         p( goes | he ...)   = [2gram] 0.000863263 [ -3.06386 ] / 1
         p( to | goes ...)   = [2gram] 0.169396 [ -0.771098 ] / 1
         p( the | to ...)    = [2gram] 0.094423 [ -1.02492 ] / 1
         p( <unk> | the ...) 	 = [2gram] 0.0217534 [ -1.66247 ] / 1
         p( park | <unk> ...)  = [2gram] 0.000322689 [ -3.49122 ] / 1
         p( </s> | park ...) 	 = [2gram] 0.139396 [ -0.855749 ] / 1
      1 sentences, 6 words, 0 OOVs
      0 zeroprobs, logprob= -12.3333 ppl= 57.7969 ppl1= 113.646

#### Additional options
Each of the tools contains a bevy of additional options, which may be used to 
perform modified versions of the above commands.  For example the use of failure
and epsilon transitions may be toggled, and the '<unk>' and sentence-begin and
sentence-end tokens may be set by the user.  See the individual `--help` for 
further details.

Lattice method details
----------------------
Details of the lattice-based method for computing the most likely permutation
are provided in the docs/lattice-method.pdf document.  This includes several
graphical examples of the approach, which is significantly more efficient than
the brute-force STD-based approach.
